When I was a young girl,
my mother and I would walk to the river
to collect water.
Every day.
We departed with our containers before dawn in the dark.
My mother led me along on a narrow path,
through the trees and the brush.
The river was nearly four miles away,
and the walk was unsafe.
Long ago, our river was clean.
Today, it is dirty and full of sickness.
Malaria, Cholera, and fever.
My little Susan almost died from diarrhea.
Our family was all affected by the dirty water.
But we needed it.
We all need water.
We knew there was a problem.
We saw the problem.
But we are a poor village,
and could do nothing to change it.
I was sad and afraid of losing a child.
Then last year, we recieved a miracle.
It was a well.
We were given the supplies, and also the guidance,
but the men of my village built it.
They built it for our family--for all the families.
It took many months to dig and build this well.
But my husband and brothers worked hard every day.
Now I am happy.
I know that we are safe.
My daughter and I no longer have to go to the river every day.
My children are also safe from the dangers of dirty water.
Now that I don't have to walk so far to get water,
I can take better care of my family
My children can go to school.
We have a better life.
It is a kind of liberation.
The well is the center of my village and the future of my family.